DM-39921: Compare performance of the execution and the quantum-backed butler when using BPS (#4)
lsst-dm/dmtn-177: index.rst

Another approach that may be better for continued support of both approaches would be to implement a new ``LimitedButler`` subclass to be backed by a prepopulated registry, which should reduce or even eliminate the need for other middleware code (specifically ``SingleQuantumExecutor``) to be aware of the mode in which execution is occurring.

Performance
^^^^^^^^^^^

To compare overall performance of the execution and the quantum-backed butler we selected Step 1 on DC2 test-med-1.

> For each run, the workflow consisted for of total 57,305 quanta distributed evenly between five tasks: ``isr``, ``characterizeImage``, ``calibrate``, ``writeSourceTable``, ``transformSourceTable``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each run, the workflow consisted of 57,305 quanta distributed evenly between five tasks: ``isr``, ``characterizeImage``, ``calibrate``, ``writeSourceTable``, ``transformSourceTable``.
```

> LSST Batch Processing Service (BPS) added two more jobs to the workflow: ``pipetaskInit``, ``finalJob``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rubin's BPS added two more jobs to the workflow: ``pipetaskInit``, ``finalJob``.
```

I think we've decided that BPS isn't a "service" and more like a "system" but I don't think we've made a formal statement to that effect and have instead not defined BPS at all.

Both runs were made at USDF with BPS using the HTCondor plugin.

 
.. figure:: /_static/eb_vs_qbb.png
   :name: fig-eb_vs_qbb

   Distributions of job durations grouped by pipetask name.

>    Blue histograms depict time distributions for workflow execution which used prepopulated read-only SQLite registry also known as the execution butler (EB).

Reviewer: I think there has to be some comment that the finalJob timings are identical otherwise you only see the red histogram and don't realize that the blue is underneath it.

   Red ones show corresponding results for the workflow which used Quantum-Backed Butler (QBB).
   In both cases, job duration was calculated as the the difference between the start and the end of an HTCondor job.
   All reported times are in minutes.

.. note::

>    For ``pipetaskInit`` its duration was approx. 42 min. when using the execution butler and only 2 min. when using quantum-backed butler.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   For ``pipetaskInit`` its duration was approximately 42 minutes when using the execution butler and only 2 minutes when using quantum-backed butler.
```

No reason to abbreviate the words here.
